(up-tempo music plays)
Yes.
Quite dead.
As a doornail.
Certificate
of death, sir.
(man clears throat)
(exhales deeply)
(floor creaking)
Stop!
Back away, praddock.
(coins jingling)
Tuppence is tuppence.
(chorus singing God Rest Ye
Merry Gentlemen in distance)
♪ Was born on Christmas day ♪
♪ To save us all
from Satan's power ♪
♪ When we was gone astray ♪
♪ Oh, tidings
of comfort and joy ♪
Beg your pardon!
(man) I say!
♪ Oh, tidings
of comfort and joy ♪
♪ From God
our Heavenly Father ♪
♪ A blessed Angel ♪
(all trail off)
(quietly)
♪ God rest ye
merry gentlemen ♪
♪ Let nothing you dismay ♪♪
(shouting, whooping)
Delinquents.
(man) Newspaper!
(indistinct chatter)
(dog barking, yelping)
(man shouts)
(medley of
Christmas carols plays)
(boy 1) We're hungry, sir!
(boy 2) Please, sir,
we're very hungry.
(boy 3) Any morsel.
We're hungry, sir.
(boy 1) Any scraps.
(boy 2) We're starving.
(boy 3) Please, sir.
We're very hungry.
Oh! Merry Christmas,
from his lordship,
the mayor!
(boy 2) Please, sir.
(boy 1) Oh, look.
There it is.
(boy 1) Oi! Come
back here with that!
That's our meat!
Give it back!
That's ours!
Come back here!
There you are, sir.
Thanks.
Fresh hot chestnuts.
How would you
like this one?
That's perfect.
(man) That's a nice
fresh eel.
Here is the Father,
the Son and the Holy Ghost.
Get lost.
And under which one
is the pea?
Boom, boom,
boom, boom...
Boom!
Get out of here.
(boy blows raspberry)
There we are.
Watch this now.
(indistinct chatter continues)
(keys jingling)
(door unlocking)
(door creaking)
(ice crackling)
(shuddering)
(door opens)
Merry Christmas, Uncle!
God save you.
Bah! Humbug!
Christmas a humbug?
Uncle! You don't mean that.
Merry Christmas.
What reason have you
to be merry?
You're poor enough.
What right have you
to be so dismal?
You're rich enough.
Humbug!
Don't be cross, Uncle.
What else can I be
when I live in such
a world of fools as this?
Merry Christmas.
What's Christmastime to you
but a time for paying bills
without money.
A time for finding
yourself a year older
and not a penny richer.
If I could work my will,
every idiot who goes about
with "Merry Christmas"
on his lips
should be boiled
in his own pudding,
and buried
with a stake of holly
through his heart!
Uncle!
Nephew!
Keep Christmas
in your own way
and let me
keep it in mine.
Keep it?
But you don't keep it!
(Scrooge) Let me
leave it alone then.
Much good
it has ever done you.
There are many things from
which I have derived good
and have not profited.
Christmas being
among them.
But I have always thought
of Christmas as a kind,
charitable time.
The only time when men
open their shut-up hearts,
and think of all people
as fellow travelers
to the grave,
and not some other race
of creatures bound
on other journeys.
And therefore, Uncle,
although it has never put
a scrap of gold or silver
in my pocket,
I believe
it has done me good,
and I say,
God bless it!
Let me hear another sound
out of you, Cratchit,
and you'll keep Christmas
by losing your situation!
You're quite
a powerful speaker, sir.
A wonder you don't go
into Parliament.
Don't be cross, Uncle.
Come,
dine with us tomorrow.
I'll see you
in hell first.
But why?
Why so cold-hearted,
Uncle? Why?
Why did you get married?
Because I fell in love.
Because...
...you fell...
...in love?
Good afternoon.
I want nothing from you.
I ask nothing of you.
Why can't we be friends?
Good afternoon.
I'm sorry,
with all my heart,
to find you so resolute.
But I have made the trial
in homage to Christmas,
and therefore,
merry Christmas, Uncle!
Good afternoon!
And a happy New Year!
And a very merry Christmas
to you too, Mr. Cratchit.
(Cratchit)
Merry Christmas
to you, sir.
There's another one.
(door opens)
A clerk making
15 shillings a week...
(door closes)
...and with a wife
and family,
talking about
a merry Christmas.
I'll retire to Bedlam.
(door opens)
Ah. Good afternoon.
Scrooge and Marley's,
I believe?
Ah...
Have I the pleasure of
addressing Mr. Scrooge
or Mr. Marley?
Mr. Marley has been dead
these seven years.
He died
seven years ago...
this very night.
Oh...
Well, we have no doubt
that his generosity,
is well represented
by his surviving partner.
At this festive season
of the year, Mr. Scrooge,
it is more than usually
desirable that we should
make some slight provision,
for the poor
and the destitute.
Many thousands are in want
of common comfort, sir.
Are there no prisons?
(blows, clears throat)
Prisons? Yes, yes,
plenty of prisons.
And the union workhouses,
are they still in operation?
They are.
I wish I could
say they were not.
(Scrooge) The treadmill
in full vigor?
Very busy, sir.
Good!
I was afraid something had
occurred to stop them
in their useful course.
Yes. At this festive season,
a few of us are endeavoring
to raise a fund
to buy the poor
some meat and drink
and means of warmth.
What shall we
put you down for?
Nothing.
Oh, you wish
to remain anonymous?
I wish to be left alone!
I don't make merry
myself at Christmas,
and I can't afford
to make idle people merry.
I support
the establishments
I have mentioned.
And those
who are badly off
must go there.
Many cannot go there.
And, well, frankly,
many would rather die.
Then they
had better do it
and decrease
the surplus population.
Good afternoon,
gentlemen!
Good afternoon.
(door opens)
(church bell tolling)
You'll want all day
tomorrow, I suppose?
Well, if quite
convenient, sir.
It's not convenient,
and it's not fair.
If I were to dock you
a half a crown for it,
you'd think
yourself ill-used.
And yet you don't
think me ill-used
when I pay
a day's wages
for no work.
Well, it's only
once a year, sir.
Poor excuse for
picking a man's pocket
every 25th of December.
But I suppose you must
have the whole day.
Be here all the earlier
the next morning.
Sir.
(door rattling)
(chuckling)
(children shouting)
(laughing)
Whoa!
In honor of
Christmas Eve!
(children shouting)
Whoa!
(laughing)
(gate creaking)
(gate slam echoing)
(keys jingling)
Bugger it!
(Scrooge grunting)
Where are you? Here!
Why does everything seem
to happen to me?
(gasps)
(roars)
Ah!
(shouting, grunts)
Get away! Get away!
(whimpering)
(chuckles nervously)
Ha! Balderdash!
(blowing)
(tapping)
(door slam echoes)
I have given myself
the willies. (scoffs)
That's what it is.
(ringing softly)
(bells continue ringing)
(ringing loudly)
(clock chimes)
(bells ringing)
(loud ringing)
(ringing stops)
(door creaking)
(soft thumping)
(soft rattling)
(soft rattling
and thumping continues)
(whimpering)
(chains dragging)
(footsteps thudding)
(noises get louder)
(noise stops)
(soft creaking)
(doorknob creaking)
It's all still
a hum... Ah!
Oh!
(gasping)
How now!
What do you want
with me?
(rasping) Oh, much.
Who are you?
(man) Ask me who I was.
Who were you then?
In life,
I was your partner,
Jacob Marley.
Can you sit down?
I can!
Do it then.
(gasps, whimpering)
You do not
believe in me.
I don't.
Why do you doubt
your senses?
Because the littlest
thing can affect them.
A slight disorder
of the stomach
can make them cheat.
You may be an undigested
bit of beef.
A blot of mustard.
A crumb of cheese.
A fragment
of underdone potato.
There's more of gravy
than of grave about you,
whatever you are.
(shouting)
Mercy! Dreadful apparition,
why do you trouble me?
Man of worldly mind,
do you believe in me
or not?
(Scrooge) I do! I must!
(moaning) Woe!
Woe is me!
You are fettered
in chains. Why?
I wear the chain
I forged in life.
I made it link by link
and yard by yard.
Do you recognize
its pattern?
Can you imagine
the weight and length
of the chain you bear?
It was as heavy and long
as this seven
Christmas Eves ago.
Oh, yours
is a ponderous chain.
Jacob,
tell me no more.
Speak comfort
to me, Jacob.
I have none to give.
I cannot stay.
I cannot linger anywhere.
Mark me, in life,
my spirit never walked
beyond our countinghouse,
never roved beyond
the narrow limits
of our money-changing hole.
Now endless journeys
lie before me.
Seven years dead
and traveling
all the time?
The whole time.
No rest, no peace.
You must've covered a lot
of ground in seven years.
(Marley shouting)
(moans) I was blind!
Blind! I could
not see my own life!
Squandered and misused.
Oh, woe...
Oh, woe is me!
But you were always
a good man of business!
Business!
(Scrooge shouts)
(groaning)
(whimpering)
Mankind...
was my business.
The common welfare
Charity, mercy, forbearance,
and benevolence were all my...
(mumbling)
(bones cracking)
(groaning)
(gagging)
(gasps)
(muffled speech)
(Scrooge whimpering)
Hear me!
My time is nearly gone.
I will. But don't
be hard upon me, Jacob.
Pray.
I am here
to warn you,
that you have yet
a chance at a hope
of escaping my fate.
A chance of
my procuring, Ebenezer.
You were always
a good friend
to me, Jacob.
Thank 'ee.
You will be haunted
by three spirits.
That's the chance
and hope?
I'd rather not.
Expect the first tomorrow
when the bell tolls one.
Couldn't I take them
all at once,
and have it
over with, Jacob?
Expect the second
the next night
at the same hour.
And the third
upon the next night,
when the last stroke of 12
has ceased to vibrate.
(panting)
(chains rattle)
Look to see me no more.
Ah! (moaning)
(ghosts shouting)
(ghosts moaning)
Ah!
(ghost) I'm sorry.
I wish I could help you.
(Scrooge yells)
Ah!
(growling)
Oh! (whimpering)
Ah!
(whimpering)
(sighs)
(bell tolls once)
(gasps)
Ah!
(whimpering, mumbling)
Are you the spirit
whose coming
was foretold to me?
I am.
(gasps)
Is it possible that
you might put
your cap on?
Would you so soon put out,
with your worldly hands,
the light I give?
No, no! No, no!
I'm so sorry.
I meant nothing by it.
I meant no offense.
I just thought I...
Who and what are you?
I am the Ghost
of Christmas Past.
Long past?
Your past.
Rise.
And walk with me.
(muttering, gasping)
But I am mortal
and liable to fall.
Bear but a touch
of my hand there...
...and you shall be upheld
in more than this.
(Scrooge) Whoa!
(moaning)
(church bells ringing)
Good heavens.
I was bred
in this place.
I was a boy here.
Your lip...
is trembling.
And what's that?
(gasps) On your cheek?
Nothing.
Something in my eye.
(sniffs)
Do you remember the way?
(laughs) Remember it?
I could walk it
blindfolded.
(children shouting)
Giddyup! Giddyup!
(all shouting)
Oh! Whoa!
These are
but shadows of things
that have been.
They have
no consciousness... of us.
(children singing
The Wassail Song)
♪ Love and joy ♪♪
(Scrooge) I knew them.
(laughing) I know
every one of them.
They were
schoolmates of mine.
Let's go on.
(bell tolls)
This...
This was my school.
This school is
not quite deserted.
A solitary child...
...neglected by
his friends...
...is left here still.
I know.
(singing O' Come All Ye
Faithful softly in Latin)
(Scrooge) Poor boy.
Poor, poor boy.
Let's...
see another Christmas.
Ebenezer!
Dear, dear brother!
I've come to
bring you home!
Home, little Fan?
Yes, home!
Father is so much kinder
than he used to be.
He spoke so gently
to me one night.
I was not afraid to ask him
if you might come home.
And he said yes!
And he sent me
in a coach to fetch you.
And we're to be together
all the Christmas long.
And to have
the merriest time
in all the world!
You're quite a woman,
little Fan.
She had a large heart.
She died a woman.
And had, as I think...
...children.
Yes, one child.
True. Your nephew.
Yes.
Do you know
this place?
(Scrooge laughing)
Know it?
I was an apprentice here!
Why, it's old Fezziwig.
Bless his heart!
It's Fezziwig
alive again!
(bell tolls)
(laughing)
Yo-ho!
Ebenezer, come on!
Come on!
Dick! Come on!
It's 6:00.
They're going to
be here soon.
(laughing)
Dick Wilkins.
Bless me, yes.
There he is,
Dick Wilkins.
He was very attached
to me, was Dick.
(laughter)
Yo-ho, me lads!
No more work tonight.
It's Christmas Eve!
Hooray!
Dick, Ebenezer,
let's get cleared away.
We want lots of space.
Lots and lots of space.
Hee-hi!
Whoa!
(up-tempo music playing)
(indistinct chatter)
Maestro!
May I present...?!
Whoo!
(gasps, laughs)
(Fezziwig laughing)
Well done! Well done!
And now, kind fiddler,
if you please.
It is time for
Sir Roger de Coverley!
(all chattering)
Hey!
(up-tempo music plays)
(all shouting, laughing)
Might I have this dance
with you?
Whoo! (laughs)
(laughs)
Ebenezer,
it's your pass.
(music fades)
(soft classical music plays)
(woman) Another idol
has replaced me.
(young Scrooge)
Another idol?
What idol?
A golden one.
There is nothing
on this earth
more terrifying to me
than a life doomed
to poverty.
May I ask,
why do you condemn,
with such severity,
the honest pursuit
of substance?
You fear the world
too much, Ebenezer.
(Scrooge sighs)
You've changed.
Changed?
Perhaps grown wiser,
but I have not changed
toward you.
Our contract
is an old one.
It was made when
we were both poor
and content to be so.
When it was made...
You were another man.
I was a boy!
I release you,
Ebenezer.
Have I ever
sought release?
In words, no.
In what, then?
In an altered spirit.
In another
atmosphere of life.
In everything
that made my love of
any worth in your sight.
Tell me, Ebenezer,
if this contract had
never been between us,
would you
seek me out now?
No.
You think not?
I would gladly think
otherwise if I could.
But if you were free today,
would you choose
a dowerless girl?
A girl left penniless
by the death
of her parents?
You, who weighs
everything by gain?
I release you,
Ebenezer.
May you be happy
in the life you've chosen.
(door opens, shuts)
Spirit, remove me
from this place.
I told you,
these were shadows of
things that have been.
They are what they are.
Do not blame me.
Remove me.
I cannot bear it.
Leave me!
Take me back!
Haunt me no longer!
(groaning)
(shouting)
(laughs)
(yelling)
(screaming)
(shouting)
Ah! Oh!
(whimpering)
(yelling)
(shouting)
Ah! Ah!
(grunts) Oh, blast!
(bell tolls once)
(ghostly chuckling)
(laughter continues)
(ghost) Enter, Scrooge!
(tinkling music plays)
(ghost chuckling)
(continues chuckling loudly)
Come in! Come in
and know me better, man!
(guffaws)
I am the Ghost
of Christmas Present.
Look upon me!
(whimpers)
(laughing)
You have never seen
the likes of me before?
Never.
Have never walked forth
with my elder brothers?
I don't think
that I have.
You have many brothers?
(chortling)
More than 1,800.
1,842, to be exact.
Oh. (laughs)
I see you wear a scabbard,
but no sword.
Indeed.
Peace on Earth.
Goodwill toward men.
Spirit, conduct me
where you will.
(laughs)
Oh...
Touch my robe.
(laughing)
(laughing loudly)
Oh! What's happening?
What are you doing?
(Ghost of Christmas Present
laughs)
(Scrooge) Ah!
(Scrooge moans)
(Ghost of Christmas Present
chuckles)
(♪ Hark! The Herald
Angels Sing playing)
♪ Glory to
the newborn king! ♪
♪ Peace on Earth
and mercy mild ♪
♪ God and sinners
reconciled ♪
Oh!
Very strange.
Indeed.
Not many mortals are granted
a heavenly perspective
of man's world.
Yes.
(indistinct chatter,
laughter)
♪ Glory to
the newborn king! ♪
♪ Peace on Earth
and mercy mild ♪
♪ God and sinners reconciled ♪
♪ Joyful all ye nations rise ♪
(bell tolls)
♪ With the angelic
host proclaim ♪
♪ Christ is born
in Bethlehem ♪
♪ Hark!
The herald angels sing ♪
(Scrooge laughs)
It's quite beautiful.
Spirit, these poor people
have no means
to cook their food.
And yet you seek
to close the only places,
in which they can
warm their meager meals,
every seventh day.
(rumbling)
Oh!
(Ghost of Christmas Present)
Hear me, Scrooge.
There are some
upon this earth of yours
who claim to know me
and my brothers,
and do their deeds of ill will
and selfishness in our name.
These so-called
"men of the cloth"
are as strange
to me and my kin
as if they never lived.
Charge their doings
to them, not us.
Aye. I will.
(boy) Smell that?
(girl) Cooking goose!
(boy) Come on!
(Ghost of Christmas Present
laughs)
♪ Joyful all ye
nations rise ♪
♪ Join the triumph
of the skies ♪
♪ With the angelic
host proclaim ♪
♪ Christ is born
in Bethlehem ♪♪
(Scrooge) I take it this
bleak paupers' dwelling
is of some significance.
(Ghost of Christmas Present)
It is all your loyal clerk
can afford
for his meager
15 bob a week.
(boy) Mother!
(girl) Papa!
We just came
by the baker shop.
And smelled our goose,
cooking delicious.
(Mother) Shut the door,
please.
What happened to
your precious father?
And your brother.
And Martha,
she wasn't as late
last Christmas Day.
(girl) Mother,
here she is, Mother.
Here's Martha.
(boy) Martha! Wait till
you see our goose.
'Tis a, wonderful one.
(Mother) Peter,
off with you to the baker's
and collect the bird.
And take
the children with you.
And pray, no dallying.
Why, bless your
heart alive!
Dear, how late you are!
We had a deal of work to
finish up last night and
clear away this morning.
Never mind.
Long as you're here.
Sit ye down before
the fire and
have a warm.
No. No, no, no.
There's Father coming.
You must hide.
Hide, Martha.
(laughing)
(grunts)
(door opens)
It's cold out there.
(woman) Hello, Father.
Hello, Timmy.
Why, where's our Martha?
Uh... Not coming.
Not coming?
Not coming
upon Christmas Day?
Here I am, Father!
(laughter)
We got you, Father.
I couldn't bear
to see you in a
state of disappointment.
If only for a giggle.
It's so lovely
to see you, my Martha.
Come on, Timmy.
I hear the pudding
singing in the copper.
Shall we
have a look, then?
How did little Timmy behave?
As good as gold.
And better.
Somehow he gets
thoughtful sitting
by himself so much,
he thinks
the strangest things
you ever heard.
He told me, coming home,
that he hoped the people
sawed him in church,
because he was a cripple...
...and it might make pleasant
for them to remember it
upon Christmas Day
who made
lame beggars walk
and blind men see.
I believe he grows
more hearty and stronger
every day, my dear.
(halting footsteps approach)
The pudding
looks delicious!
The whole wash house
smells like a
pastry cook's shop.
Spirit, tell me
will Tiny Tim...
I see a vacant seat
in the poor
chimney corner
and a crutch
without an owner.
Carefully preserved.
Hurrah!
The Christmas goose!
(Mother) Make space.
Let's get that cover off.
(all) Oh!
(Mother) Lovely!
Well done, Peter.
I don't believe
I've ever seen a more
magnificent goose cooked.
It is a beautiful bird
that's for sure.
But I'll pray that
one Christmas,
perhaps,
the children
might taste a turkey.
Perhaps one day, my dear.
Perhaps one day.
A toast.
To Mr. Scrooge.
The founder of our feast.
(Mother) Ha!
Founder of the feast,
indeed.
I wish I had him here.
I'd give him
a piece of my mind
to feast upon,
and I'd hope he'd have
a good appetite for it.
(Cratchit) My dear,
the children
It's Christmas Day.
Christmas Day, I'm sure.
How can one drink the health
of such an odious, stingy,
hard, unfeeling man
as Mr. Scrooge?
As you know he is, Robert,
nobody knows it
better than you.
My dear,
Christmas Day.
I'll drink his health
for your sake and
the day's, not for his.
(Mother)
A merry Christmas
and a happy New Year.
He'll be very merry
and very happy,
I have no doubt.
A merry Christmas
to us all, my dears.
God bless us.
(all) God bless us.
God bless us, everyone.
(laughter)
Merry Christmas
and happy New Year.
God bless.
Kind spirit,
say Tiny Tim
will be spared.
If these shadows
remain unaltered,
by the future...
The child will die.
Die! No, spirit. No.
What then?
If he is to die,
he had better do it.
And decrease
the surplus population.
(laughing)
(voices laughing)
(man) So you're thinking
of an animal?
(man 2) Yes.
(woman) A live animal?
A rather
disagreeable animal?
Yes.
A savage animal?
Wait, wait!
Is it an animal that
grunts and growls?
Yes!
And lives in London?
Yes.
A horse?
No.
A cow?
A dog?
A pig?
No.
An ass?
Yes and no.
Oh!
Oh! I know who it is, Fred!
I know!
It's your Uncle Scrooge!
Yes.
(laughter)
(man) Christmas a humbug?
Now, he actually
said that?
(Fred) As I live.
And he believes it.
(woman)
I have no patience
with him, Fred.
I have.
I'm sorry for him.
Who suffers from his
ill whims? Only himself.
He decides to dislike us,
won't come and dine with us,
and what's
the consequence?
He loses a dinner.
Indeed, he loses a
very good dinner.
(man) Hear, hear.
A magnificent dinner.
(woman) Great.
He's certainly
given us plenty of merriment,
that's for sure,
and I think it would be
ungrateful not to drink
to his health.
He wouldn't take it
from me, but he may
have it nevertheless.
A merry Christmas to the
old man, whatever he is.
Uncle Scrooge.
(all) To Uncle Scrooge
(bell tolls)
(clock ticking)
Are spirits' lives
so short?
My life upon this globe
is very brief.
It ends tonight.
Tonight?
Tonight at midnight.
(clattering)
Hark.
The time is
drawing near.
(gears clattering)
(loud ticking)
Forgive me...
But I see something
strange protruding
from your skirt.
Is it a foot
or a claw?
It might be a claw,
for the scant amount of
flesh there is upon it.
Look here.
(child snarls) Naff off!
(Ghost of Christmas Present)
Oh, man. Look here.
(child)
You daft old geezer.
Look! Look!
(whimpering)
Down here!
(gasping)
(hissing, snarling)
Go away!
Are they yours?
They are man's.
This boy is Ignorance.
(hissing)
This girl is Want.
(moans)
Beware them both.
(bell tolls loudly)
Oh!
Ah!
(bell tolls loudly)
(gasps, laughing)
(moaning)
Have they no refuge?
No resource?
(bell tolls)
Are there no prisons?
Are there
no workhouses
(laughing)
(bell tolls)
(Want screaming)
(laughing)
(bell tolls)
(wind howling)
(laughing)
(bell tolls)
(wind howling)
(clock ticking)
(whimpering)
Am I in the presence
of the Ghost of Christmas
Yet to Come?
You're about
to show me shadows
of the things that have
not happened
but will happen.
Is that so, spirit?
Ghost of the Future,
I fear you more than
any specter I have seen.
But I know your purpose
is to do me good.
I am prepared
to bear you company.
Lead on.
The night is waning fast.
It's precious time to me.
Lead on, spirit.
(yelling)
When did he die?
Last night, I believe.
Or sometime Christmas Day.
(man) I thought
he'd never die.
(man 2) What's he done
with his money?
Hasn't left it to me.
That's all I know.
(men laughing)
It is likely to be
a cheap funeral.
For the life of me,
I can't think of anyone
who'd want to attend it.
I don't mind going...
If lunch is provided.
There, yes.
(men laughing)
What a frightful fellow.
All right.
Good day,
gentlemen.
Get a hold
of yourself, Ebenezer.
You're having a wobbly.
(hoof beats approaching)
(horses grunting)
(growling)
(gasps)
(whip snaps)
(whimpering)
(moaning)
(shouting)
(laughing)
Whoo!
(screaming, laughing)
Oh! Oh!
(shouting)
(moaning)
(whip snaps)
(neighing)
(roaring)
(whip snaps)
(moaning)
(screeching)
(panting, grunts)
You won't get me in here.
Christmas pudding,
no doubt.
(gasping)
(grunting)
I'm... I'm on Lime Street.
(horses whinnying)
(high-pitched)
Oh, come now.
(horses whinny)
(shouting)
(grunting)
(screams)
(shouting)
Oh!
Ah!
Whoa!
(shouting)
(screaming)
(creaking)
(woman) Merry Christmas,
Joe.
(Joe) And happy New Year,
to be sure. Come in.
Sit down in me parlor
and let's have a look.
(humming)
Here.
Whoa!
What do you call these,
Mrs. Dilber, huh?
(high-pitched)
Mrs. Dilber?
Bed curtains. (laughs)
You mean to say
you took them down
while he was lying there?
(laughing) I do.
And why not?
(laughing)
You was born
to make your fortune,
and you certainly will do it.
(Mrs. Dilber)
Well, I shan't
hold back my hand
when I can get
something by it...
Don't you go getting grease
on them blankets now.
His blankets?
Whose else
do you think?
He won't be feeling
the cold without
them now, I dare say.
I hope he didn't die
of anything catching.
Don't you
be afeard of that.
I ain't so fond
of his company
that I'd loiter about.
(Joe laughs)
You can
look through that shirt
till your eyes ache,
and you won't find
one hole in it.
It was the
best he had.
(high-pitched) Mrs. Dilber!
(Mrs. Dilber) Would have
been wasted, only for me.
You're fired! Fired!
How did you mean
"wasted"?
Somebody was fool enough
to put it on him
to be buried in.
(Joe laughs)
(Mrs. Dilber)
But I took it off him.
(laughter)
This is
the end of it,
you see.
He frightened
everyone away
while he was alive.
Only to profit us
now that he's dead.
If he'd had somebody
to look after him
he was struck with death,
instead of lying there
all alone, gasping out
his last breath...
...well, we wouldn't
have these things
to sell now, would we?
(sniffing)
(squealing)
Hey!
(screaming)
Whoa!
(shouting)
Spirit! I see! I see!
(voice deepens) The case of
this unhappy man who dies,
a solitary, lonesome death
might be my own.
(normal voice)
My life tends
that way now.
Merciful heavens!
What's this?
Spirit, this is
a fearful place.
When I leave it,
I shall not
leave its lesson.
Trust me. Let's go!
I understand.
And I would, if I could
but I have not the power.
Spirit, if there is
any person who feels emotion
caused by this man's death,
show that
person to me
I beg you.
(woman) Are we ruined?
(man) There is hope yet.
(woman) Hope?
Only if he relents.
He is past
relenting.
He is dead.
Dead?
(laughing)
To whom will our debts
be transferred?
I don't know, but by then
we'll have the money
and even
if we don't,
it's unlikely any
new creditor will
ever be so merciless.
(man) We shall
sleep tonight with
light hearts, my dear.
Let me see
some tenderness
connected to death,
or this chamber
will forever
haunt me!
(clock chiming)
It's late.
Past your
father's time.
He's walked slow
these last
few evenings.
Oh, he has walked...
...with Tiny Tim
on his shoulders...
Fast, indeed.
But he was
very light...
...to carry, and...
...your father
loved him so.
(sobbing)
(girl) Father.
(Mother) You went today,
then?
Yes, my dear.
I wish
you could
have gone.
Would have done you
good to see how
green a place it is.
You'll see it often.
And I promised him
I would walk there every...
(sobbing) every Sunday.
(sobbing)
My little child!
My little child.
Father, please
don't be grieved.
Please, Father.
I'm all right, love.
I'm quite at peace.
I'm sure none of us
will ever forget
our poor Tiny Tim.
(boy) Oh, no, Father.
(girl) Never ever.
(Cratchit) Thank you.
Thank you, my dears.
(gasping)
(Scrooge) Bob.
(Scrooge gasps)
(Cratchit sobbing)
Specter...
Something tells me
our parting moment
is at hand.
Tell me...
...who
...was that man
we saw lying dead?
(explosion)
(screaming)
(grunting)
(thunder crashes)
(wind howling)
Spirit...
...before I draw
nearer to that stone
to which you point,
answer me one question!
Are these the shadows
of things that will be
or shadows
of things
that may be?
Men's courses in life
foreshadow certain ends.
But if these courses are
departed from, these ends
will change. Isn't that so?
(thunder crashes)
(Scrooge) No. No!
Am I that man
who lay upon the bed?
(thunder crashes)
No. Spirit, hear me!
I'm not the man I was!
Why show me this
if I'm past all hope?
Spirit!
Spirit, assure me
that I may change these
shadows you've shown me!
Change them
by an altered life!
(thunder crashes)
No, spirit! No!
No, spirit!
(grunting)
(straining)
Good spirit...
Help me!
Spirit!
Help me, spirit!
(grunting)
(screams, moaning)
(coffin door creaks)
Ah!
(screaming)
Help, spirit!
(screams)
Spirit, I will honor
Christmas in my heart and
try to keep it all the year.
I will not shut out
the lessons of the past,
nor present, nor future.
Oh, please, spirit,
tell me I may
sponge away the
writing on that stone!
(wind howling)
(screaming)
(shouting)
(crashing)
(whimpering)
(grunting)
Still here?
They're still here.
(laughing)
I'm still here.
I'm still here!
(laughing)
I don't know
what to do.
I'm light as a feather,
merry as a schoolboy.
I've heard
that laugh before.
(chuckling)
Ah!
I say, what's today?
(boy) Eh?
What's today,
my fine fellow?
Today?
Why, Christmas Day.
It's Christmas Day?
I haven't missed it.
The spirits have done it
all in one night.
They can do
anything they like
of course they can.
Of, course they can.
Hello, my fine fellow.
Do you know the
poulterer's on the corner?
(boy) I should
hope I did.
(laughs)
What an intelligent boy.
Do you know whether
they've sold the prize turkey
that was hanging there?
Not the little
prize turkey,
the big one.
The one as big as me?
(laughing) What
a delightful child.
Yes, my buck.
(boy) It's hanging
there now.
Is it? Go and buy it, then!
Walker!
No, no, I'm in earnest.
Go and buy it,
bring it back here,
and I'll give you a shilling.
Come back in less than
five minutes, and I'll
give you a half a crown.
I'll send it to Bob Cratchit's
he shan't know who sent it.
It's twice the size
of Tiny Tim.
(laughing)
Mrs. Dilber.
Merry Christmas!
(gasping) Oh, my God!
(screaming)
He's gone mad!
(Scrooge) Yay!
My dear Mrs. Dilber,
you're the
loveliest creature
I have ever laid eyes upon.
Dance with me!
Mrs. Dilber.
You're barmy, Mr. Scrooge!
Unhand me! (screams)
He's completely
deranged! Help!
What a charming woman.
(Mrs. Dilber) Help!
I shall love it
as long as I live.
What an honest face
it has.
Ooh! (chuckles)
Hello.
Here's the bird.
Hello! Whoop! (laughs)
How are you?
Merry Christmas.
Why, it's impossible
to carry that to
Camden Town.
You must have a cab.
Drive on,
my good man!
(Scrooge laughs)
Hilly-ho! Chirrup!
(laughs)
Yahoo! (laughs)
Hip, hip!
Chirry-up!
Bob's your uncle!
Fanny's your aunt!
Here's your
aunt's fanny.
(laughs)
Live it up, folks!
You'll be a long time dead!
Don't let the worms
have all the fun.
Merry Christmas.
(♪ singing Joy to the World)
♪ The Lord has come ♪
♪ Let Earth receive her King ♪
♪ Let every heart ♪
Good morning, sir.
A merry Christmas to you.
And to you, sir.
Happy holiday!
And a
merry Christmas
to you.
God bless you, sir.
(man) Thank you, sir.
Glad tidings.
(man 2) Sir.
♪ The Savior reigns ♪
♪ Let men their songs employ ♪
My dear sir,
how do you do? I hope you
succeeded yesterday.
A merry Christmas
to you, sir.
Mr. Scrooge?
Yes. That is my name,
and I fear it may not
be pleasant to you.
But allow me
to ask your pardon.
And will you
have the goodness...
Lord bless me!
My dear Mr. Scrooge,
are you serious?
And not a
farthing less.
A great many back payments
are included in it,
I assure you.
My dear sir,
I don't know
what to say to such...
Do not say anything
I'm much obliged to you.
Many thanks to you.
And bless you.
♪ Let every heart
prepare Him room ♪
♪ And heaven and nature sing ♪
(loudly) ♪ And heaven ♪
♪ And heaven
and nature sing ♪♪
(Scrooge humming)
(indistinct chattering)
Is your master
at home?
Yes, sir.
I'm... his uncle.
(man) Is it an animal
that grunts and growls?
(Fred) Yes.
(man 2) And lives
in London?
(Fred) Yes.
(man 3) A horse?
(Fred) No.
(woman) A cow?
(woman 2) A dog.
(man) A pig.
(Fred) No.
(woman) An ass.
(Fred) Yes and no.
I know what it is, Fred!
I know!
(Fred) What?
It's your...
(door creaking)
Uncle Scrooge?
Well, bless my soul.
I've...
Come to dinner...
...if you'll have me.
Of course, Uncle!
Welcome! Welcome!
Merry Christmas!
Everybody, this is
my uncle, Ebenezer.
(indistinct chatter)
Be good and
pass this.
Here you go.
Enjoy.
Next year we must
have this dinner
at my house.
I insist.
I'll spare no expense.
After all, you can't
take it with you,
can you?
No, you can't.
(laughter)
(bell tolling)
(clock ticking)
(laughs)
A full
16 minutes late.
What do you mean
by coming here
at this time of day?
I'm very sorry, sir.
I am a bit behind
in my time.
You are, indeed.
Step in here.
Well, it's only
once a year, sir.
It shall not be repeated.
I was making rather
merry yesterday.
Now, I'll tell you what,
Mr. Cratchit.
I'm not going to stand
for this sort of thing
any longer.
And therefore...
I am about
to raise your salary!
(laughs)
A merry Christmas
to you, Bob.
A merrier Christmas,
Bob, my good fellow,
than I've given you
in many a year.
I'll raise your salary,
and do whatever I can to
help your struggling family.
And we'll discuss
your affairs
this very afternoon over
a bowl of Christmas punch.
But first,
let's make up
the fires.
I want you to go out...
And buy another
scuttle of coal
before you
dot another "I",
Bob Cratchit.
Off with you, Bob.
We've wassailing to do.
Hilly-ho, Bob!
Yeah. Yes, sir.
Right away, sir.
(Scrooge laughs)
(♪ chorus in distance singing
The Wassail Song)
♪ And to you
your wassail too ♪
♪ And God bless you
and send you
a Happy New Year ♪
♪ Happy New Year
Happy New Year ♪
♪ And God send you
a Happy New Year ♪♪
And Scrooge was better
than his word.
He did all that
he said he would
and more.
And to our Tiny Tim,
who got well,
Scrooge was like
a second father.
He became as good a friend
as good a master
and as good a man
as the good old city
ever knew.
And it was always said
of him that he knew
how to keep Christmas well.
And so,
as Tiny Tim observed...
God bless us,
everyone.
(♪ Hark!
The Herald Angels Sing)
♪ Glory to ♪
♪ The newborn king! ♪♪
(♪ Andrea Bocelli singing
God Bless Us Everyone)
♪ Come together one and all ♪
♪ In the giving spirit ♪
♪ Gifts abound here
great and small ♪
♪ Joyously we feel it ♪
♪ Blessings sent us
from above ♪
♪ Guide us on our way ♪
♪ We raise our voice
as we rejoice ♪
♪ Bow our head and pray ♪
♪ A miracle has just begun ♪
♪ God bless us everyone ♪
♪ To the voices
no one hears ♪
♪ We have come
to find you ♪
♪ With your laughter
and your tears ♪
♪ Goodness, hope and virtue ♪
♪ Father, mother,
daughter, son ♪
♪ Each a treasure be ♪
♪ One candle's light
dispels the night ♪
♪ Now our eyes can see ♪
♪ Burning brighter
than the sun ♪
♪ God bless us everyone ♪
♪ The miracle has just begun ♪
♪ Come together one and all ♪
♪ In the giving spirit ♪
♪ Gifts abound here
great and small ♪
♪ Joyously we feel it ♪
♪ Father, mother,
daughter, son ♪
♪ Each a treasure be ♪
♪ One candle's light
dispels the night ♪
♪ Now our eyes can see ♪
♪ Burning brighter
than the sun ♪
♪ God bless us everyone ♪
♪ God bless us ♪
♪ Everyone ♪♪